# Basepoint-Filtration
The purpose of this software is to perform basepoint filtrations on finite metric spaces. The current code performs a specific basepoint filtration, called the eccentricity filtration; but the code can easily be adapted to perform other basepoint filtrations. 

The code requires that you have Javaplex and ripser for Matlab both installed on your machine. You must use the "load_javaplex.m" file as usual before running the code, and make sure that the correct relative directories of Javaplex and ripser are at the top of "basepoint_ecc_filtration.m".

To run the code, simply type "basepoint_ecc_filtration.m" into the Matlab command line and hit enter. The code will run as it is, with the example of a point cloud taken from the surface scan of a cat, found in "cat0.mat". Comments are left throughout the code to see how the user could alter the code in "basepoint_ecc_filtration.m" to compute barcodes for different spaces. If one wishes to change the actual basepoint filtration being used, this can be done in "computeripserfiltration.m".

When the current code is executed, a plot of a 3-D point cloud of the cat will appear (depending on your machine this could take anywhere from 10s-2 minutes. If it is stalling, try using a smaller number of points). Click on a point on the plot to compute the persistence barcodes with said point the selected point for the basepoint filtration. The code will then produce figures for persistence barcodes/diagrams in dimensions 0 and 1 (you can get higher dimensional barcodes by altering "computeripserfiltration.m". If you wish to compute the persistence with a new basepoint selected, close the barcode/diagram plots, and click a new point on the original point cloud plot. One can keep selecting new basepoints this way for new diagrams until the original plot of the point cloud is closed. Note: it is advised not to close the original plot of the point cloud until one has tested all the basepoints they wish, as reaching this initial plot is the most computationally-intensive portion of the cat example due to having to select a smaller number of optimal points and compute a distance matrix for them. If a different example is used where a distance matrix is already explicitly known, this would be much a non-issue.
